[engine roaring]
[screeching sounds]
[intense whooshing]
[Niko grunts and gasps]
[grunts]
[groans]
Just hang on.
[intense whooshing]
Here's hoping that
their hyperspeed is faster than our FTL.
[gasps]
[sighs] Okay. Okay.
Please tell me we're there. [sighs]
[Niko groans]
[grunts]
[instruments whirring]
Okay. That's the Artifact.
We made it.
[Niko sighs]
All right.
Now we just have to have faith.
Every planet we've been to so far that
has an Artifact also has organic life,
which means that this planet
should also have oxygen.
What if I took the implant?
I won't let you.
We don't know if, back on Earth,
-Zayn can get that implant out.
-Stop it.
-Stop strategizing how you'll save me.
-I can't.
I can't walk into an Artifact saying,
"I'll take an implant,"
-if I don't intend on keeping it.
-Why not?
Because they'll know.
Richard, when you are in an Artifact,
they are in your head.
I had… coffee with my mom,
and-- and it knew about a silent retreat
that I'd gone on with Erik,
and some damn bird
I tried to save as a child.
So what am I supposed to do?
Stand back and just let you go?
[softly] Richard…
You get me in the Artifact,
-and then you have to let me go.
-No.
-Richard.
[sighs]
We need to get home.
It is the only way.
[sighs]
Hey. This is Dillon Conner,
Zayn Petrossian,
and Bernie Martinez.
We're the crew of the Salvare.
And we're being hunted by USIC right now
because of--
Amazing how fast USIC can find people
-when they're truly motivated.
-[Mackenzie] "Motivated"?
Do you know how many nutjobs
have been emailing, calling,
storming the security gates
because of your stunt?
-[laughs]
-Uh… Yeah. Duh. I mean…
Shit. That video's got everything.
-Aliens, government conspiracy--
You're sabotaging everything.
Our entire relationship with the Achaia.
Good.
"Good"?
Yeah. We've seen that relationship.
It ends in death and destruction.
Good luck welcoming the aliens
when the whole world's chanting "Go away."
Mm-hm. And that's not the only reason
we made the video.
Seth Gage wiped our memories.
He's killed people.
Where is Erik Wallace? Or Cas Isakovic?
Dead, if we reveal that.
Smart move, struggling with the belt.
I was struggling with the seat belt.
William.
William?
Huh.
I've just never been
in a spaceship before.
Ever?
I mean, Niko was gonna bring me up
before she left and tour me around.
Yeah. We left a bit rushed.
This might be the closest
I've felt to her since she left.
She's here for me too.
So does William just appear or--
He should've by now.
How do you look for someone
who isn't really there?
[Cas, muffled] William! Where are you?
We need to talk to you, now.
[Seth] Any luck?
It's not in his operating system's
virtual memory.
I'm gonna have to do a buffer overrun.
[instruments whirring and bleeping]
Why are you helping him?
[Ursula] I am helping the Achaia.
-They're murderers.
-Humans are murderers.
Everywhere we go.
Romans, Vikings,
European explorers
that decimated entire continents.
-Are we to be conquered, then?
-Liberated.
Elevated to the next phase
of our evolution.
I've seen the restored forests.
I've heard all about the miracle cures.
-They're deceptions. All of them.
-No.
They're not, William.
I used to think
that science could save the world.
I thought that I could save the world.
Look at me, what you did.
You made me.
I'm your creation.
I created Gabriel,
and then I wrote you over top of him.
He's gone.
Deleted.
I helped bring the Salvare home.
I saved the crew multiple times, in fact.
And how many crew did we kill?
Alien viruses,
ejected out of airlocks, burned alive?
I can't save anything, William.
Just let the aliens do it.
That data is the only hope we have
of a defense against the Achaia.
You cannot give it to Seth.
Poor William.
So brave.
So emotional.
This isn't fair to you.
Just stop.
No.
I've located it.
You did?
It's wrapped in a biometric encryption.
I'm gonna have to dig deeper
into his API, but I will crack this.
And then I'll delete you.
Anything?
Some rocks, a big valley,
the Artifact, and then absolutely nothing.
It's weird.
I don't like weird.
Well, if I'm delivering you
to the Artifact,
we can't get captured again.
So, pick.
Where did you find all of this?
[Richard] All over.
Hidden.
If we're goin' out there,
we'll need weapons and armor.
This isn't all Decuma-designed.
Well, whatever species did design it
didn't survive.
-We did.
-[vibrating]
Feel this.
Vibration.
Oh! Sings in your hand. I know.
[puts weapon down]
[vibrations stop]
[grunts]
-You don't wanna pick something lighter?
-Oh, this isn't for fighting!
-[whirring]
-[chuckles[
-Wait here.
-No.
We go together.
No. You're taking the implant.
At least let me go first.
[intense whooshing]
-[Niko coughs]
-[Richard groans]
-Close the door.
-No, no, no.
[both gasping]
The air's fine.
-Just thin. But fine.
-[wheezing]
Breathe in from your gut.
[panting]
[both coughing and gasping]
[sighs]
[debris pattering softly]
[whooshing]
[crashing]
[both gasp]
[whooshing]
[wind whistling]
[inhales wheezily]
[exhales]
[low rumbling]
[Niko] What's that around it?
[soft tinkling]
It's not Achaian?
I've seen three Artifacts up close.
-None of them had any of that.
-Well, let's go find out.
-[intense humming]
-[gentle tinkling]
[Niko gasping]
[sighs] You--
You hear anything?
Yeah.
My heart in my head.
[intense humming
and soft tinkling continue]
[gasps]
Let's see if this lures them out.
[stones clattering]
Okay. Yeah?
-I'm goin' in.
-Okay.
[whirring]
[Richard] Whoa.
What built this?
[Niko] And where did they go?
[Richard] Niko.
[Niko] This is a record
of when the Achaia landed on this planet.
And whatever was here
welcomed them.
Richard.
-What?
-Below you.
[gasps]
These columns are headstones.
This is a cemetery.
These are what? Kings and queens?
[Richard] They even
have Achaian implants as crowns.
I saw implants on Zakir.
It was… carnage.
There were bodies everywhere. This is…
this is ceremonial.
Oh, but still a bunch of dead aliens.
[low humming]
[grinding]
-[gentle tinkling]
-[low, pulsating hum]
Whoa! Hey, hey. What are you doin'?
What we came here to do.
Surrendering.
[tinkling and humming continue]
[echoing] Do me a favor.
[echoing] Yeah. Anything.
When we get back to Earth…
don't let me see Erik.
Really. Don't let me see Jana.
I won't… be myself as long as I have
one of those things in my head, and…
the self that I will be,
I don't trust with my family.
Okay.
[sighs]
[high-pitched ringing]
[groaning]
It's too much. [gasps]
Stop, stop, stop. All at once.
[ringing subsides]
We know where Niko is.
Breckinridge?
She's in an Artifact with Richard Ncube
on a planet orbiting a star named Citalá.
And she'll be replacing me
if I can't extract William's fucking data!
I need more time.
If I had my quantum annealers,
I could brute force the--
What if I decrypted the data for you?
I wouldn't trust it.
What if the exchange
was mutually beneficial?
What if?
Twenty minutes ago, Cas Isakovic
brought Erik Wallace on board the Salvare.
And?
Niko means the world to me.
You love her?
Yeah. I'd like to spend
the rest of her life together,
but not-- not as myself.
If I could place my codin'
into an Achaian implant,
could that implant be placed
inside Erik Wallace?
It might not work.
For an implant to take long-term,
it's better if it's accepted,
-and Erik would never do that.
-What if we gave him no choice?
[Ursula] This is disgusting.
This is grotesque, even considering it!
I won't have anything to do with this.
I-- I want to leave right now.
You'll shut up, or you'll join those
dead astronauts you're so torn up about.
Shall I bring Erik to you?
Do it.
We'll be ready.
I can see William online,
but I can't access his processing core.
-[William appears]
-She's found it.
[Cas] William.
-Wait. Who's found it?
-Ursula Monroe.
-She's here?
-With Seth Gage in the med lab.
She's located the data.
It's encrypted, but she wrote my coding.
It's only a matter of time before--
-[whirring]
-Oh, no.
[breaking up] No!
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
If-- if Seth's here,
he's with USIC security.
They've got those implants.
Follow me.
Cas?
I'm Cas Isakovic,
commander of the Salvare.
-I'm looking for Seth Gage.
-Erik. Ahem.
Uh, Cas, there's more.
Officer, stand dow-- Whoa!
[officer grunting]
Yaah! Gah!
-[moans]
-Whoa!
[yells] Cas!
[Erik] Okay. Okay, okay. Okay.
Okay! [grumbles]
Fuck me. If it isn't
the Achaian employee of the month.
Surprised to see you, Erik.
And you, helping them.
-Restrain him.
-On the bed.
-I-- Hey, hey, hey. Get your hands off.
-Now! Let's go. Let's go!
-Okay.
-Hey. None of this is necessary.
I've almost hacked into
William's encryption.
-Just give me more time.
-We need you to take an implant.
No! Never!
Get the f--
He's all yours, William.
Niko's alive.
Where is she? I mean, how-- how is she?
[William] She's safe.
She's in an Artifact
on a planet we're yet to travel to.
Great. How are we gettin' her home?
[Seth] Well, we are going to open a bridge
between that Artifact and here.
And all you need is for me
to take a spider.
Accept an implant into your consciousness.
Like I did.
Do I get to become a raging asshole too?
[laughs] Uh…
Worse. You become William.
Niko trusted you.
You gave them the data, didn't you?
No. Not yet.
Tell you what. Erik, I got an idea.
I'll call up Jana.
I'll ask her how she feels
about becoming an orphan.
No.
No, no, no.
Don't-- don't-- don't call.
[whimpers]
[sighs]
Do it.
[Ursula screams]
Why did you shoot him?
Ursula,
William is going to decrypt that data.
-Once I confirm it's what I'm looking for…
-Uh-huh?
…I want you to be ready to press delete.
Wait. Wait! I don't think he's dead.
[crunching]
[whirring]
[screeching]
[screams] No!
[spider whirring]
[screeching]
Oh, fuck.
Quick. Jump in before he changes his mind.
No, no, no, no.
[hyperventilating]
Not until the bridge is open
and Niko and Richard are safe.
When I get what I want,
you'll get what you want.
So go over there and make it happen.
Sure.
[rumbling]
[Niko] Hello?
Thank you for letting us in.
[Niko's voice echoing] …for letting us in…
I'm ready to negotiate now.
[Richard] Who's that?
Maybe someone from your past?
Seth Gage,
Department of Homeland Security.
I'm here to rescue you.
You took the implant?
Only after you turned it down.
So you're their spokesman?
I am.
Oh, that means I can do this.
[rumbling]
Earth.
[gentle rainfall]
It's raining.
Not a whole lot I can do about that.
No, I'm…
I'm not complaining.
So…
we can just… walk on through?
Cas, Seth's opened the bridge to Earth.
I need you, fast as possible.
Apologies for the machinations, Erik,
but I've discovered the only thing
the Achaia respond to is cruelty.
What do you want me to do, William?
Distract him
while I do the same on the other end.
-I need him weak and preoccupied.
-You don't wanna kill him?
[William] Not till we know
Niko and Richard are safe.
And we may still need Seth,
even after that.
But hurt him.
Painfully, repeatedly.
William.
I wanna help.
They'll be attacking my coding.
Trying to delete me.
I'll buttress it. Keep you safe.
[intense whirring]
[Cas grunts]
Fucking William.
What about William?
He's here?
[grunts]
No! Let him go!
[choking]
[groaning]
What the fuck
are you doing to me back there?
[gasping]
-[choking]
-[Seth] Hurts, doesn't it?
-Didn't think you could feel pain in here.
-[Niko] Let him go!
When Iara encountered the Achaia,
they strangled her.
But she wasn't ready.
I am.
-Run.
-[Niko] William?
William, can you get back?
[groans]
I'm certainly gonna try.
-We need to go. We need to go!
-[yelps]
[gasping]
[grinding]
-Oh!
-[laughs]
-We made it.
-We did.
We're home!
[both laugh]
We made it. We're-- [laughs]
We made it.
"A robot may not injure a human."
Well, I'm not a robot,
-and in here…
-[spluttering]
…you're not a human being.
[yells]
What's going on? Where's William?
He's still in the implant.
Get William out of that thing!
[Ursula] I'm trying to,
but his code is under attack!
Every time I think
I've corralled his code, it resets.
Seth, no. Seth.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no!
[screeches]
[spider's power dying]
Fucking William.
-[William appears]
-Perhaps I was too fast for you.
I'm afraid you can't hurt me here.
-[yells]
-[grunts]
[Seth] You can kill me. It doesn't matter.
Word's out. The Achaians are pissed.
Rings are gathering. They'll be here--
[gasping for breath]
[groans]
Ursula.
[Niko] William? Cas? Answer me.
[Erik] Oh, my God!
Niko!
-Erik?
-[laughs]
-Did Richard make it?
-Yeah, he did. Can't believe it.
What about William?
Glad to see we're all here.
Thank you, William.
Ah, it's all in a day's work.
Hey. I'm gonna head up there.
Reintroduce ourselves.
-Uh, give me a sec.
-[Erik] There's so much to tell you.
But you actually need
to talk to Cas and William
because Seth said
that the Achaia are on their way.
[Niko] What?
Please tell me
the neutrino weapon is up and running.
I've been workin' on it,
and, um… I've been strugglin'.
If the Achaia really are pissed,
we're gonna need some kind of defense.
[radio chatter]
I gotta go. I've got USIC incoming.
I love you.
I love you too.
I'll see you back on Earth.
Commander Breckinridge?
Is that really necessary?
Annette Mackenzie, Secretary of State.
Welcome back.
And, yes, we cuff everyone
stepping out of the Artifact.
Are you still human?
No implant?
Yes. Why?
Then let's hurry up and do this.
-We need to get the military ready.
-For?
When the Achaia attack.
Come on. [grunts]
[Erik] So you're telling me
that neutrinos did that level of damage?
Yes. High-density neutrinos.
Blasted from a magnetar.
Oh, it destroyed the entire ring.
I mean,
if only we had a neutron star nearby.
-We have a particle accelerator.
-It can do that?
In its current state? No.
Is there a future state
you're thinking of?
That's where I'm stumped.
We need more neutrinos,
but any attempt at increasin' production
leads to an overheatin' of
the superconductin' magnetic confinement.
X-rays, gamma rays, hadrons, electrons.
Basically, everythin' starts shootin'
holes in the ship, then it explodes.
What if we backed off
on the accelerator beam,
directed equal power
into the cooling systems,
and then toggle between the two?
Shall we run the theory?
Yeah.
-[rainfall]
-[radio chatter]
No offense, but this'll go faster
if I speak to the Joint Chiefs.
-I've been trying to find Seth Gage.
-Seth went rogue.
Why would he do that?
Probably for the same reason
we're expecting the Achaia to attack.
-We know what kills them.
-You wanna kill them?
We wanna be prepared
in case they arrive intending to kill us.
-We're trying to forge an understand--
-I'll speak to the Joint Chiefs now.
[radio chatter]
How's it goin', Erik?
[Erik] Amazing.
William's modulated
the accelerator and the cooling systems.
The magnetic confinements are holding.
We've got a neutrino flux of…
ten trillion.
I'd say we triple that
in another 20 minutes.
This ship is now a neutrino bomb.
No, no. Bomb gives us one shot.
Bomb leaves Earth defenseless.
Yes, yes, yes.
But if I destroy a cluster of ships,
bomb gives Ursula time to release the data
to the rest of the world.
Countries can then make their own bombs.
William, bomb is not happening.
[inhales shakily]
I'm not sure it has to.
When the magnetar dusted the Achaian ship,
you were towing it, right?
That's correct.
How?
Manipulated gravity released into space,
focused using the FTL drive.
Okay.
So, do the same thing with the neutrinos.
They possess equal properties.
Or better.
I could tweak the FTL bubble
and give the neutrinos aim.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
Make the bomb a gun?
It's a big fucking gun.
-I like this, William.
-[William] There's one problem, though.
USIC engineers have already started
dismantlin' the FTL drive.
-I'll reconnect it.
-I'll help. Uh, what do I do?
Are either of you two claustrophobic?
Did they take a lawn mower to this?
Completely slashed the circuitry
to the FTL drive.
Can you fix it?
Yes.
We just have to undo some of the damage.
How long's it gonna take?
-Uh…
-[tool whirs]
Everything still needs to be placed
on the circuit path from the bridge.
But then after that, uh, that's it.
William should have access
to the FTL drive again.
[alarm blares]
[tool whirs]
What is happening?
A wormhole's opening
between Earth and Mars.
Is anything coming through?
-[bleeping]
-At least one Achaian ring.
How long is it gonna take?
[Niko] Salvare?
Salvare?
Cas? Erik?
[tools whirring]
[alarm blaring]
[bleeping]
What if we nuke them?
Fire up every missile?
-Delay the attack on Earth.
-The Joint Chiefs would say no.
Niko? Oh, thank God you're back.
And we brought the Achaia with us.
Shit. How many ships?
One. It is enough.
Are you sure Earth's the target?
Uh--
[alarm blaring]
[bleeping speeding up]
[Cas] The ring's closing in!
I need that weapon now!
Fuck, fuck, fuck!
[tool whirring]
[Niko] Salvare?
[alarm continues blaring]
Come on. Answer me!
William? Erik?
You guys, abandon ship!
[explosion]
♪ Pages turn and darkness falls on us ♪
♪ Walk inside this place turning to dust ♪
♪ We are the broken ones ♪
♪ We are the broken ones, we are ♪
♪ Oh, oh, oh ♪
♪ Ooh, ooh ♪
♪ Ooh ♪
♪ Oh, oh ♪
♪ Oh, oh, oh ♪
♪ Oh ♪
♪ Pages turn and darkness falls on us ♪
♪ Walk inside this place turning to dust ♪
♪ We are the broken ones ♪
-♪ We are the broken ones, we are ♪
-♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh ♪
♪ Ooh, ooh ♪
♪ We are the broken ones ♪
-♪ We are the broken ones, we are ♪
-♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh ♪
♪ Ooh, ooh ♪
♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh ♪
♪ Ooh ♪
♪ Ooh, ooh ♪
♪ Ooh ♪